PaymentService
PaymentExecutor
PaymentServiceProvider
cardScheme
ledger
Wallet


Payment service

The payment service accepts payment events from users and coordinates the payment process. The first thing it usually does is a risk check, assessing for compliance with regulations such as AML/CFT [2], and for evidence of criminal activity such as money laundering or financing of terrorism. The payment service only processes payments that pass this risk check. Usually, the risk check service uses a third-party provider because it is very complicated and highly specialized.

Payment executor

The payment executor executes a single payment order via a Payment Service Provider (PSP). A payment event may contain several payment orders.

Payment Service Provider (PSP)

A PSP moves money from account A to account B. In this simplified example, the PSP moves the money out of the buyer’s credit card account. 

Card schemes

Card schemes are the organizations that process credit card operations. Well known card schemes are Visa, MasterCard, Discovery, etc. The card scheme ecosystem is very complex [3].

Ledger

The ledger keeps a financial record of the payment transaction. For example, when a user pays the seller $1, we record it as debit $1 from a user and credit $1 to the seller. The ledger system is very important in post-payment analysis, such as calculating the total revenue of the e-commerce website or forecasting future revenue. 

Wallet

The wallet keeps the account balance of the merchant. It may also record how much a given user has paid in total. 
When a user clicks the “place order” button, a payment event is generated and sent to the payment service.
The payment service stores the payment event in the database.
Sometimes, a single payment event may contain several payment orders. 
For example, you may select products from multiple sellers in a single checkout process. 
If the e-commerce website splits the checkout into multiple payment orders, the payment service calls the payment executor for each payment order.
The payment executor stores the payment order in the database.
The payment executor calls an external PSP to process the credit card payment.
After the payment executor has successfully processed the payment, the payment service updates the wallet to record how much money a given seller has.
The wallet server stores the updated balance information in the database.
After the wallet service has successfully updated the seller’s balance information, the payment service calls the ledger to update it.
The ledger service appends the new ledger information to the database.
