Design Recommendation system similar to Youtube, Netflix, spotify

Concepts: 
      Save Userbehaviour in the system and extract some patterns out of it

Recommendation Types:
       If you are designing a Recommendation engine for Netflix or youtube, Simple way to recommend most popular content(Videos), most liked viewed videos, most liked videos
       most commented videos.
       Anoter approach is if a user watches a some video , just recommend him similar videos, If he watches some comic movie, recommend him other comic movies.
       The above two approaches are simple and it doesn't provide Personalised user experience.

       Personalised user experience:
        There are two types of  popular machine learning models exists.

        Content based filtering: Extract all the features of Product . This recommendation is based on Product. For example if we are building a recommendation engine
        for movies , then we need to save the features like MovieType, ActorsinMovie, ratings of movie.
        Movie1 has features like 1, 2, 3 and Movie2 has features 2,3,4 then user1 watchd movie1 then we can recomment Movie4 to user1 and Movie1 to user2.
        This approach is good but it also doesn't consider the personalized user experience.
        In simple terms we can say products with common characteristic are suggested.

       Collaborative filtering:
          Instead of depending on characteristics of the product, we can suggest the recommendation based on users with similar taste.
          Lets say user1 wacthes movie1, movie2 and user2 watches movie2 and movie3 then we can suggest movie3 to user1 and movie1 to user2.
         Create a matrix with movies and users watching history.
          If the userbase is huge then building this matrix is difficult. it has performance cost. One way to counter this problem is group similar users together.
          It fails at making accurate recommendations during the beginning of the application when the user base is small. This is called the cold start problem. 
          If the application has just started, you’ll have either no or very few actions from the users to work on. 
          The small amount of information from the few users who are using the application is not enough to make reliable recommendations to the users.
          One way to solve this problem is to start your recommendation system on content-based filtering. Once you have more users and the amount of information 
          regarding their actions and preferences is enough to feed to your collaborative filtering model, you can switch to this filtering approach

 Feedback:  Recommendation systems thrive on feedback. They are two types of feedback. 1) ExplicitFeedback 2) ImplicitFeedback
            Explicit feedback is through giving rating, likes, shares, commenting, most of the users don't do all these things.
   
        


   





       
